Can you, can you elaborate a little bit about the nature of
volatility? Why is it communicating truth?
That's something that a lot of people are afraid of is the volatility.
Almost like it's a, it's a sign of chaos. Mm.
And so they want to escape chaos us,
but you're saying that that's actually, uh, whether it's chaos and, or not,
I don't know, but it's getting us closer to the fundamental,
like reality that we should not be trying to escape.
Yeah.
So if we consider that the universe is
pervaded by entropy, right?
This is the second law of thermodynamics is that every closed system tends
towards greater disorder over time. And that life itself, again,
I would argue expressed through the logos.
We life is the anti Tropic principle.
It's the only thing that's converting entropy into order chaos into order.
And that's what entrepreneurs are doing, right.
We're living at the edges of the known. And we're trying to we're, we're,
we're testing ourself against the entropy of nature,
trying to figure out new and better ways of saying, doing, or making things.
And then if we do crack a code or figure something out,
we then have a big incentive. The incentive is to get rich, right?
Because then you have a new idea that you could then sell back into the
marketplace. So it's this
sequence of courageously confronting the entropy of nature and converting it
into good and useful order, which by the way,
is like the ancient idea of God and Genesis, which I think is interesting, um,
that actually enables us to civilization in these layers of
anti entropy or order you might say.
So today we live in a bubble of,
of anti entropy or order, you know, like the,
the coastlines are guarded by the nation and the city has a certain, uh,
police force that keeps it in order. Um, even the way we,
we talk like there, clearly the words matter, but also the non-verbal cues,
all these things are like order that has been established over many, many,
many thousands of years of, of human evolution. And
I think that's when I say volatility is truth.
What I'm saying is that the experience of uncertainty <affirmative>,
it's something that's in era from, from life, right? Uncertainty.
Like it, it, it's kind of a paradox because it's, we're fighting against it,
right.
We're trying to innovate our way away from uncertainty to give us to create more
capital mm-hmm <affirmative>, which capital is very simply, uh,
a way of mitigating uncertainty.
So this is why you might have like a stash of food in case, you know,
the power goes out or a generator like it helps you overcome uncertainty over
time, but uncertainty is also where all the sweetness of life is <laugh>.
So there's gotta be this balance with one foot in one foot out. And.
So human society is this kind of bubble of order that we've constructed and
slowly expanding. But at the edges, you're always going to have that chaos,
that volatility and that the entrepreneurs, uh,
are kind of like jumping into that, uh, chaos and some of them die, uh,
and some of them succeed. And so like, if you want to grow this bubble of order,
you, you have to be embracing the volatility at the edges.
Yes. That, that.
That <laugh> and reverence for entrepreneurship,
because these are the people putting their neck out,
so to speak risking themselves. And they're gonna contribute to society by the,
whether they go up in flames or not. If they go up in flames,
society has witnessed their experience as something not to do or something that
doesn't work in a particular time and place so that you could say,
they're them going up in flames is a way of lightning the rest of us,
or if they figure something out. Oh, true. You know,
Steve jobs creates the iPhone, changes the world forever, so,
and lightening the rest of okay.
<laugh> and EB would say with the fire of their failure. Okay. Yeah, exactly.
<laugh> EB would say, um,
individual fragility is inseparable from ensemble anti
fragility. So this means that again,
every time that entrepreneur goes up in flames or say a restaurant goes outta
business, when a restaurant goes outta business,
that particular cuisine strategy they were implementing in that particular time
and place, that's a signal to all the other restaurants in the area that,
that doesn't work.
So restaurant food improves from bankruptcy to bankruptcy.
So it's this,
this death of the individual components that contributes to the growth of the on
ensemble.